Source: Reddit r/umass — "Name the best professor you've ever had at UMass"
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/umass/comments/mu2up/name_the_best_professor_youve_ever_had_at_umass/
Posted by u/badburrito, November 29, 2011 (27 comments)
Prompt: "I'm curious to see who everyone's favorite professors are. Any professor, even if they don't teach at UMass anymore. And explain why!"

Note: Each entry below groups one professor with the student comments (and any disagreements) about them. Opinions are from r/umass commenters; most date to 2011 unless noted.


Professor: Kyle Johnson
Department: Linguistics
Student comments: Recommended by multiple students as one of the best lecturers at UMass. "His class was structured really well and he doesn't make students do busy work. He's a really animated speaker... and you can tell that he really is interested in what he's teaching." Once, when the power went out, he took a 100+ student lecture outside and used the side of Thompson Hall as a blackboard. Praised for Intro to Linguistics (a good R2 requirement filler) — a 2024 commenter confirmed "this holds up." Dissent: a commenter (u/RecursiveForest) said he is "a terrible teacher for Syntax" and weak for non-201 classes ("Great guy though, just a bad teacher. Very entertaining for bullshit courses like 201").

Professor: David Lenson
Department: Comparative Literature
Student comments: "Remarkably intelligent man." Seconded by another student: "not only an excellent professor, but one of the most interesting people I've ever met." A third: "Lenson is the best."

Professor: Robert Sullivan
Department: German / Comparative Literature (also Crusader History)
Student comments: Recommended by several students as "all around one of the nicest professors you can run into. Extremely understanding and very helpful. He truly cares about his students." Another commenter endorsed him "100%." Noted as requiring hard work and individual thought, but rewarding for engaged students.

Professor: Zane Barlow-Coleman
Department: Biology
Student comments: "Despite how friendly many of my professors had been, she was the most amiable." A student described spending lots of time in her office hours where "she cared about my life, my goals, and my aspirations." Taught general genetics and Junior-year writing; classes were "either highly educational or highly entertaining." Another student: "She is so absolutely excellent, I have no way to say enough good things about her."

Professor: Paul Dauenhauer
Department: Chemical Engineering
Student comments: "A really cool (nerdy) guy" who "gave the best notes I've ever gotten in a class" and was very passionate about his work. ChemE majors get him for Kinetics and Reactor Design, then again for Heat and Mass Transfer. (One commenter contrasted him favorably against Lianhong Sun, who taught the same kinetics material.)

Professor: William Leonard
Department: Electrical and Computer Engineering
Student comments: Recommended "hands down" for Circuit Analysis for Electrical and Computer Engineers. "His mastery system is fantastic and his lectures are amazingly clear. The course is based around learning, not work." Several students replied with enthusiastic agreement ("I FUCKING LOVE LEONARD!!!").

Professor: Eyal Markman
Department: Mathematics
Student comments: Mixed reviews. One student found him "very helpful in office hours, good explanations during class (although occasionally makes mistakes, but he's good about recovering)." Another remembered him as "nice and approachable" but wasn't sure he was the best teacher. Strong dissent: another student called him "one of the worst teachers I have ever had," saying he "makes a chalkboard so convoluted and disorganized that it's impossible to follow" and "is not patient." A reply pushed back, noting they had enjoyed his class and that he had taught at UMass since 1998.

Professor: Paul Hacking
Department: Mathematics
Student comments: Recommended for Abstract Algebra: "very good explanations and very helpful in office hours... he'll keep explaining until he's sure you understand what's going on."

Professor: Michael Becker
Department: Linguistics
Student comments: Recommended for Phonology. The class is "fairly slow moving (like all linguistics classes)," but "he doesn't pander to stupid questions... and gives very concise and clear explanations. A very intelligent person." Students found his blunt humor with the class hilarious.

Professor: Nico Aiello
Department: Mathematics
Student comments: Had for Calc III and Calculus I. "He's super passionate about math, and wants everybody to learn as much as possible. He has stayed 4+ hours for a review session before — literally until nobody had any more questions." Called "by far the best Math teacher I've ever had."

Professor: Eric Johnson
Department: Anthropology
Student comments: Had for Anthropology 102 (Archaeology & Prehistory). "A genuinely really nice guy" who made the course interesting with corny jokes and fascinating stories from his archaeology work around the world. Made the student want to take more Anthro courses.

Professor: Andy Danylchuk
Department: Natural Resources Conservation
Student comments: Teaches NRC 260 (Fish Conservation & Management). "A wacky Canadian guy" who uses a fishing pole to help teach. Goes incredibly in-depth in lectures, with "the most insane stories," and is clearly passionate about the field.

Professor: Tammara Rahhal
Department: Psychology
Student comments: Teaches Psych 100. "Outright hilarious, she knows how to connect with students and make the class fun." Does demonstrations with random students; if a cell phone goes off, she answers it to (good-naturedly) embarrass the student. "The material isn't hard at all" — recommended for anyone taking Psych.

Professor: Adam Zucker
Department: English
Student comments: Had for Eng 221 (Shakespeare). "Although a course entirely devoted to Shakespeare is pretty daunting, he made it my favorite class of the semester. His self-deprecating humor and passion for his subject made his class really enjoyable." Recommended for English majors knocking out the Shakespeare requirement. A reply agreed strongly: "His sense of humor is so perfect that it never seems forced."

Professor: Kirby Farrell
Department: English
Student comments: Recommended for the class "Victorian Monstrosities": "Kirby is brilliant and also funny, but very very easy to learn from and talk to." Strong dissent from another student: "He's also a misogynist," and "only a good professor if you enjoy being told what to think. Victorian Monstrosity was, in my opinion, the worst class I took at UMass." (Note: the class is restricted to juniors/seniors.)

Professor: John Gerber
Department: (Sustainable Living / Stockbridge)
Student comments: "John Gerber is the fucking man. Everyone who knows him loves him and he teaches the best class on campus." A former TA recommended his Sustainable Living course to freshmen: "It will change your life."

Professor: Diane Curtis
Department: Political Science / Legal Studies
Student comments: Listed among a student's favorite professors.

Professor: John Hird
Department: Political Science
Student comments: Listed among a student's favorite professors.

Professor: George N. Parks
Department: Music (Marching Band Director)
Student comments: "The greatest man I have ever known."

Professor: Richard Ellis
Department: Mathematics
Student comments: "Teaches math, has written textbooks on probability, awesome attitude toward life in general... He is very thorough and has a great sense for how well the class is understanding the material."

Professor: Bill Meeks
Department: Mathematics
Student comments: "One of the friendliest people I've ever met. Puts immense effort into making the material as easy as possible."

Professor: Nancy Kieser
Department: Animal Science
Student comments: Taught AnSci 101 and served as an academic advisor. "So nice, and really caring." When a student wanted to leave the pre-vet track, "she was so cool about it and was suggesting all these paths I could take." Class was interesting and the student liked her exam format.

Professor: Jonathan Rothstein
Department: Mechanical Engineering
Student comments: Had for Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer. "He could explain complicated concepts in ways that made sense to everyone. Always willing to help, cracked tons of jokes." Contributes to the Super Mileage Vehicle team.

Professor: Seamus Decker
Department: Anthropology / Psychology
Student comments: Teaches Evolutionary Psychology, Sex and Evolution, and Disease Ecology. "I've never had a prof who was able to communicate his ideas, combined with traditional research in the subject, so well... manages to do so while educating me better than any other teacher I've had."

Professor: David Barrington
Department: Computer Science
Student comments: Recommended for teaching the theory and probability/combinatorics courses for Comp Sci. "I've only had Barrington for CS187 but he was fantastic." Another suggested his CS240 and CS401 courses: "pretty hard, but you walk out with a twisted, expanded brain." Dissent: a student who had him for CS250 said "he sped through the material, wrote in the worst handwriting imaginable, and assumed you were an expert 5 minutes after he showed you something... one of the smartest in the department, but I wouldn't say he was good at teaching."

Professor: Yannis Smaragdakis
Department: Computer Science
Student comments: Taught Object Oriented Programming Languages and Software Engineering; recommended alongside David Barrington.

Professor: Bob Paynter
Department: Anthropology
Student comments: Teaches Anthropology 100. "The class itself is too easy to be particularly interesting but this guy is incredible at getting attention because he is so energetic and enthusiastic." A reply agreed he is "certainly engaging."

Professor: Susan Han
Department: (Botany / Greenhouse Crop Production)
Student comments: "The nicest woman on campus" and a great advisor.

Professor: Rotondi
Department: Chemistry
Student comments: Had for Chem 112. "Very funny dude, very relaxed. He would always tell us to 'stay frosty.'"

Professor: Thea Strand
Department: Anthropology
Student comments: "So charming and insightful... makes it seem as if the in-class material has a real world application. I really enjoyed her class and teaching style."

Professor: Anthony Tuck
Department: (Classics / Archaeology)
Student comments: "He IS Indiana Jones."

Professor: Anna Taylor
Department: Medieval Studies
Student comments: Recommended alongside Robert Sullivan; requires hard work and individual thought/participation, but a blast for engaged students.

Professor: Halgin
Department: Psychology
Student comments: A student had waited three semesters to get him for Abnormal Psych. "Apparently even though it's a 200+ lecture, it gets so personal that it's almost like it's 1-on-1. He's also very well respected in the department."

Professor: Douglass Vickers
Department: Economics
Student comments (2023): "The greatest professor, showman and gentleman that ever graced a UMass classroom... every single class was a rock concert." He folded classical literature quotations into dry economic material. "I got a minor in Econ just because the classes were so good."
