Source: Reddit r/umass — "Cool classes to take?"
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/umass/comments/1jserh4/cool_classes_to_take/
Posted by u/collinxdd, April 5, 2025 (8 comments)
Question: "I'll be graduating soon and am picking classes for next semester. Are there any cool classes that anyone recommends? All subjects are fine — I just want to take interesting classes since I'm mostly done with my requirements."

Note: Each entry groups one class or recommendation with the student comment. Opinions are from r/umass commenters (April 2025).


Class: Scuba Diving (at Hampshire College)
Recommended by: u/Background-Expert-21 (6 pts)
Student comments: Suggested a scuba diving class offered at Hampshire College (accessible through the Five College consortium).

Class: Stockbridge 358 — Social Permaculture
Recommended by: u/Objective-Lie447 (3 pts)
Student comments: Recommended Stockbridge 358, Social Permaculture.

Class: Folklore of Alcohol / Humor and Comedy in Society (Communication)
Recommended by: u/MulvaX (3 pts)
Student comments: Recommended "Folklore of Alcohol" or "Humor and Comedy in Society" with Professor Stephen Olbrys Gencarella in the Communication Department.

Recommendation: Fine arts classes
Recommended by: u/HeftyHistorian9067 (2 pts)
Student comments: "Take some fine arts classes if you want to meet some really cool people."

Recommendation: Five College consortium classes
Recommended by: u/lick_cactus (2 pts)
Student comments: "Take a 5 college class! Amherst College is the closest but all of them are very accessible. If you find a course you like, it's fun to experience another campus for a bit."

Class: Sociology of Aspiration (Professor Ofer)
Recommended by: u/asianteminator1 (1 pt)
Student comments: "Sociology of Aspiration — Professor Ofer is solid and very passionate."

Recommendation: Anthropology, Geography, Social Psychology, and IE classes
Recommended by: u/lentilgrrrl (1 pt)
Student comments: "Some anthro classes can be really cool. Geography 110 is a cool climate science class offered both in person and online that counts as a PS gen ed. Social psychology classes can be cool. I think most of the IE (Integrated Experience) classes end up sounding the coolest. Also don't forget about the five college consortium choices." (Suggested the natural sciences college and STEM fields have many cool options too, and asked the poster which requirements and major/college they had left.)
