Source: Reddit r/umass — "Where should I dorm on-campus?"
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/umass/comments/1c2du2h/where_should_i_dorm_oncampus/
Posted by u/muffinhater69, April 12, 2024 (7 comments)
Question: An incoming English major (hoping to double major in marketing) asked where to live on campus. They said they like people "but not too many," want lots of natural light, and want to be close to fun things. They noted Southwest is "apparently party central" (which they're fine with) and asked about the pros and cons of the different areas.
Context: UMass Amherst on-campus housing is organized into residential areas — Southwest, Central, Northeast, Sylvan, Orchard Hill, and the Commonwealth Honors College (CHC). Opinions below are from r/umass commenters (April 2024).


Residential Area: Central
Student comments: The most recommended area in this thread. "Central probably would be the best bet, it's close to most of your classes" and close to Franklin (Frank) dining hall depending on which building. Most of Central is "up the hill," which some see as a con but others say "kept me in shape" — and you get "killer sunset/campus views if you're on the correct side of the building(s)." Buildings are on the older side (true of most dorms except the honors college). It's a mix of people, "some quiet, some louder," and reportedly popular with more "alternative" students. Specific dorms mentioned: Van Meter ("top of the hill… although the hill sucked, it was a great dorm," and a bus stops right by it) and Baker ("Great mix of fun, study, and good times"). Note: some smokers, but "that can be found in other dorms too."

Residential Area: Southwest
Student comments: Known as the social/party area and the largest — "about 5500 students live in Southwest, it is the largest concentration of people on campus." Pros: "has two dining halls in it which is super convenient" (and one commenter said "the best dining halls are in Southwest"), and it's the second-closest area to the gym. Cons: "It does get very loud at night, and people tend to trash bathrooms. It's also farthest from most classes." Because the poster said they like people but not too many, one commenter suggested ranking Southwest toward the bottom.

Residential Area: Northeast
Student comments: "Northeast doesn't have much going on, it's close to Worcester (dining hall) and will be close to many classes."

Residential Area: Commonwealth Honors College (CHC) / Honors College
Student comments: "Honors college has the best dorms. They've been rated the best — if you can get into CHC that'd be the best option. Plus, you'd be around studious people." The dorms are very nice (well air-conditioned and heated, carpeted floors), and suites have private bathrooms shared by ~4 people. It's the closest area to the gym, and has Roots Cafe, but it's far from the main dining halls and "there's not much social scene." Cost caveat: "CHC dorms cost extra plus being in CHC in general has an extra fee… Dorms are at least $400 more plus the CHC fee, so it adds up." One student decided to skip CHC to save money and try for a RAP hall in Central instead, planning to reapply for honors later.

Residential Area: Sylvan
Student comments: "Sylvan top tier."

Context — How housing selection works (from commenters):
As a freshman you rank the residential AREAS in order of preference but cannot pick a specific building — "they will take your preference into account but you may not get placed where you want." Exception: if you join a RAP (Residential Academic Program), you get housing in the hall where that RAP is located, and it's "great for getting a room early and getting to know people in similar majors." Free-housing roles: becoming an RA (Resident Advisor), PM (Peer Mentor), or RD (Resident Director) provides free housing. An RA reportedly makes ~$3,500 a semester; a PM (sophomore and up, who directs freshmen to campus resources) makes about half that with fewer responsibilities. An RD oversees the RAs in a hall.

Context — English major wanting to double major in Marketing (Isenberg policy):
A commenter (u/Joe_H-FAH) warned that UMass has a policy NOT allowing internal transfers of current students into majors that grant a BBA, which includes the Marketing major. The two Isenberg majors that grant BS degrees — Sports Management and Hospitality & Tourism Management — DO allow internal transfers. Students admitted for a double major within the Isenberg BBA programs must have that as their primary major. Suggested alternatives for someone admitted as an English major: applying for the business minor (noted by another commenter as difficult to get due to a lottery), or the two Isenberg BS majors. Recommended contacting Isenberg admissions and academic advisors early. Policy reference: https://www.isenberg.umass.edu/programs/undergraduate/on-campus/admissions/current-umass-students
